# CS-330-Computational-Graphics-and-Visualization

My approach to designing software involves several steps. I prefer to have a full understanding of the project's requirements prior to diving into the code. Once I understand what needs must be met, I gather any helpful resources, and begin breaking the requirements down into smaller steps. I establish a set of coding standards for myself, and a team if necessary, to promote consistency within the code base. There are several more steps I use for designing software, but they do not necessarily align with the needs of this OpenGL project. Remember, there is no one size fits all approach!

In this project, I used OpenGL library and C++. Before approaching the code, I went over the OpenGL resources to ensure that I had a solid understanding of computer graphics concepts. These concepts include shaders, colors, textures, transformations, reflections, lighting, and rendering. My design process for this project began with taking a photo of a real-world scene that would later be recreated into a 3D scene. The next step involved close analysis of the objects in the photo and deciding what shapes would I need to use in the program. Subsequent steps involved creating the vertices and indices, which are used to generate 2D and 3D objects, updating the shader code, applying textures to the objects, implementing camera movements, and adding phong lighting to the scene.

Computational graphics and visualizations can enhance my educational pathway by helping to strengthen my understanding of complex concepts through interactive learning experiences. They make it easier for me to understand ideas that involve mathematics and physics while increasing my proficiency in the C++ programming language. Computational graphics and visualizations offer several advantages for my professional career. These advantages include data visualization, simulation and modeling, game development, research, and even web development. As you can see, computational graphics and visualizations equips me with valuable skills and knowledge that can be applied in several professional pathways.
